07:00. I'm going to order the March 8 regular meeting at the Andover Connecticut Board of Education.
I wanna thank all the families who are here this evening and the people in the future.
>> We're here to join. It's so good to have a room full of people again. We haven't had this in a long time. Good
>> to see you. I'm glad to be here. Thank you. I'd like to also thank the board of education members,
you for volunteering your time to sit on the board for the town of Handover.
Okay. We need to stand and do the club of the legion. Can you stand?
Okay. Second thing on the agenda is comments from the public.
I'll start with Jenny Morell.
Nothing for me. Thank you, Jerry.
>> Hey. Thanks for being here. Anybody in our
group here wanna have any public
comment?
Hearing none. Thank you.
Communication. Does anyone have any to share?
None to share.
Approval of minutes. We have the regular meeting of 02/08/2023.
We need a motion, a second, discussion, and a vote to be. I can motion.
Motion for?
>> For February 8 because I wasn't down. Okay. You're a second. All second to go. Thank you. Any discussion?
>> Okay. All in favor of approving the minutes of the regular meeting of 02/08/2022,
say aye. Aye.
Thank
you, Steve.
Any
opposed?
Any abstentions?
>> We move on to special meeting of 02/20/1123.
We need a motion and a second. The second and a vote reset
for each for that meeting. I approve my my motion to approve the set up for education meeting minutes for.
Thank you. Any second? I'll second that.
You. Any discussion?
>> Okay. All in favor of of approving that
approval
of that meeting, I'll say aye.
Aye.
Any opposed?
Any consenting?
You would see. So it's a 902.
4. 402.
Oh,
got it. It just needed. Opportunity
>> to add or delete any agenda items. Only when you wanna add or delete any agenda items.
Hearing none, I wanna take the time to celebrate
our AEF twenty twenty three Invention Convention winner.
Thank you for being here, and thank you for your job your job well done,
and you're chosen as our finalist in our school.
Wanna acknowledge
Davis Haggerty, fourth grade, who made the water machine. Davis, or
fourth grade with more.
Yes.
Brandon Warner,
fourth grade, the everything fidget.
Lily Meyer Fowler, the three,
rolling the dark snowflakes.
I'd love to get one of them.
Brianna Bowen, sixth grade privacy box.
I don't wanna you know, We
all carrying bag.
Being one of the the judges, I I'll tell you. I've done a lot of hard work,
good thinking,
problem solving skills.
I was truly impressed, and I think your parents would be very proud of you and the effort and energy you put into this project.
>> Thank you again, and thank you for sharing and your support.
>> I
do. I have a couple of celebrating.
First of all, I'd like to thank the board of education on March is board appreciation month for all of us.
And, you know, there's a little bit in the back for each one of you. We know that it's a lot of time and a lot of energy that's put forth
for the kids, and we're busy. So yes.
Absolutely
oh, it didn't come one month out of the year, but thank you, everybody.
We
don't have cooking. It's your birthday. Happy birthday tonight. Thank you.
And I also wanted to thank Taylor.
We had a task.
I state who is in the process of passing the mandates for
a specific
k to three reading curriculum.
And if you didn't have that reading curriculum within your district,
there were six places. If you didn't have that within your districts already, and those districts did not,
you could apply for a waiver, and it was labor.
It took a lot of chocolate and overtime
to get this paper done.
And, of course, I sat back and I thought, this is the first really big task. Let's see if she gets this done to get a beautiful job with it.
And so I I I really value appreciate the fact that she got that job for our district so that we can forward. I'll be we can certainly on on on our. So thank you, Sarah.
Thank
>> Thank you, you,
Okay.
Chairperson for anybody else that we in celebration?
No?
Chairperson's all all report. I have nothing to report.
Now we really need to do.
>> Oh, I have three things, then I will tell the.
So
>> we won't be offended.
Just absolutely.
Accurate games.
So a couple of things. We after spring grant is going well.
We have had now the
opening in January and the full month of February, and March is fully booked
in terms of the activities.
I really appreciate the fact that staff
in general, not just teaching staff, staff all over the building, parents. I've got a couple of emails in the past month making some suggestions for things we might do. We've got some suggestions from seniors, and
I think everybody's excited about the possibilities.
The
email
sign ups will be going in the office,
and it's like five concert tickets back when I was in eighties
because as soon as people get Taylor's email, it's like, hell no. Let's go sign up sign up because some of them are limited to maybe five to 10. And so it's kind of interesting and fun.
We do have a few activities, but the numbers are limited. What
we will be doing, we're going to have an evening of a few topics
that are gonna be taking place. And
when we have that parent evening, we will have the computer set up in front of the exhibition
that talks about what we've done so far with the after school program, and we'll be asking parents at that time for feedback, what do they wanna see again,
You know, what do they feel like they
missed out on grade wise?
We're learning as we go along and and some suggestions.
We think we know some of the the ones that have been very popular, but, you know, we definitely want the feedback because this will run already through June next year.
So the feedback yeah. So the feedback will be yep. Because it was a two year break. It was this school year and next year. So we wanna make sure
from the very start of the school year that we have to develop a nice full calendar choice for the kids. So that is a positive news there.
The security grant is the last grant that I still have open right now to apply for.
They did extend it. It was the deadline was March, but there is a lot of specificity that they're asking for in it, so they did extend that until they get the. So
I'm working on that. As I mentioned last month, we did do the the first section where these with the
the two work group and or wherever
county or any of the person that help you do state and security.
That too. So I had a list of things that are included in there. As I said, I'm not sure what the rewards will go out for them, when they'll tell us whether we get it or not.
But we're working on that. That's our last week for us to apply for that with their work this year. We haven't received any
offerings for summer grants yet. I know that's been really able to offer a program because we've had that. We're still on the lookout.
They just haven't offered them yet for the summer, so we're not really sure if we're gonna have that.
So that will be most of our kids to
the one choice that they have every summer, which is the the summer program.
And I know that when we had
logged on and asked us a month or so ago to consider
what
we would approve. And I know the board usually says, you know, we'll we'll support whatever the administration wants. So
we have talked about not knowing what's gonna belong with the grounds outside for this product. And since
the full program moved from the gym to the to upstairs homes in the room right at the office,
we don't see a problem with the full program running the majority of the summer. They have
they understand that they won't be able to reach, you know, the jamming, the path, and things like that. They
have obvious ideas for setting up a tent up up in the upper
playgrounds. We don't think that would fail with anything
regardless.
And just using that wing, having that wing be the last wing that's done. They also said that the one week over the summer that is the smallest, it's a like, average wise for them is the week of July 4. Okay. So they will they will close them.
Their request
and, you know, we're we're ready to say, okay, as long as anybody don't have any objections to it. Their request is the week after school gets out until the week of August 11 with the week of July 4 off. So it would be a three week span of seven weeks,
and it takes that week out.
And they usually have about 30 kids.
So
we have talked a little bit from April to any conflicts.
So what does that need before for? It's like, it's still too late. Right?
Yes. Okay. Like, that you guys have enough time. Right. To be able to get that thing done, you know, last minute other things.
I'm I'm sorry. No? When I know when you go back to school now because you've had.
So
>> So it it would would start start to the week be for of the the ninth. Nineteenth.
Right? Yeah. After.
Yeah. '14 to. Okay.
>> So the nineteenth.
So the August
19.
Oh, rather. Which one we got before. Okay.
So the okay. So August 11 is the last day because that's a Friday.
And then it would still give, like, two two and a half weeks. Right. Before. Yep. Yep. I
I I have no problem with that. I was wanting get a motion or I just I didn't know if there's anything that you guys could think of because it's not on here as, like, an action item. I didn't know if there was anything that you could think of that might
come into
I mean, that area should be out of the way. I mean, solar and Right. Right. Right. That's what I was thinking too. And any construction or anything like that, that area, particularly for some of that. The only thing I would ask is just as you've done before, but the gym just to make sure that. Completely in. Well, that's why they would think at all. No. No. No. So because they also do the floors and all that kind of stuff cleaning. If you have enough time to get to that lane, that would be fine for them. Yeah. Instead of doing the wing at the beginning Yep. They would wait for it to happen. Okay. And that's enough time at all. Yeah.
Because there's the only classrooms there that are used in the summer at all are.
Mhmm.
But that's on a one to two days ago.
The nurse's office is closed. The
the special director
office and the office are not closed, and then the other siblings are there. Mhmm. So, like, pick up and drop off and get out there. Not.
Okay. And they would still have access to the back
The
one I'm sorry. There is one thing that I didn't forget because I was waiting for a long time to get
when we did celebrations, the the one student that we did not recognize
tonight again was Toni Morris, who did go to.
And
she made a free program.
And so the second round, I think we're gonna work. It's gonna kick it out, and we
Yeah. So I wanna start to say thank you for so many of you participating tonight or during the day today.
>> I know it's for appreciation month in general, and I'm very appreciative of all of your support.
I ask to all, but, you know, everybody goes to them to help and step in and and help at school.
So I'm I'm very appreciative of your support, and I think it was a great event tonight. I'm excited for our kids who worked hard and
and just for our families to do that work. So thank you for supporting us there.
I also just wanted to recognize that we have one of our student speakers here tonight, Dylan, he's visiting
here. And I think it's just a good reminder, and that's why we have. But I think it's a good reminder.
I wanted to share with the board that we support a lot of interns and student teachers here in Andover, which is really awesome.
We have
we said we had a total of at least five this year, whether it be their attending internships or just one or two days a week to full students. And
we also have a community student teacher as well right now. And it's exciting because it really gives our staff an opportunity to give back to perfection and really
we have some talent to share. So I just wanted to kinda share that, and we think, Lily, it's part of her experience to get to you know, we had a fun board meeting.
It's great. So
That's one of the. Exactly.
So we have a student chair. We also have DARE starting. I just wanted to share that for our sixth graders. Our resident super Sebastian will be our DARE teacher
for sixth grade, and that will go through the end of this year. So that's great. And we also, in March, kicked off early across the month. So one of the
lots of different varieties of activities, but one of the things we're doing is inviting families to come in and read in the classroom. So some classrooms are doing it with a mystery reader. Some are just inviting families.
But, certainly,
it's it's another fun way to just encourage some from our families and certainly support members too. I know I torched you all in the beginning of the year with a.
But you're you're all about them anytime as well. So
that's exciting. Mentioned that labor is committed, so that's exciting.
And I think, you know, there's no plans on when when those care results. Yeah. That's what I was like.
They don't have to tell you anything.
>> You
know, people are speculating to see April
that, you know, in theory, if they weren't to to say yes, then they needed to be fine.
I mean, there was nothing else that.
>> There you go. There you go.
We have early release. We have conferences coming up at the end of the week, our second conference here. So that's exciting.
I'm sorry. The end of the month, not the end of week. And that will be a half day. And then
really before you know it, we'll be into.
>> And it's always the
we have to in the total balances
the with their balances.
But we've done a lot of work on this over the last month.
It's coming up a little bit, and we still continue to work on it. And,
you know, with the teams over in staff and this, still a lot of, like, things coming in that were kinda lost and transistence.
So you're we'll see more changes in the next.
Does anybody
>> had a chance to review these numbers or any questions on the numbers? Just have one question. Sure. On the summary report
for printing and binding,
is that was that stuff that was adjusted from other areas,
or,
like, is that gonna continue to go
>> over? No. I'm actually going
to request
it it went over due to the fact that we were doing in
>> house
so that the copier
budget is over. Okay. We I I have a budget transfer on the table for you all to see if we Okay. To to get that straightened out. About budget predict, dude. Okay? One of the things we talked about was
>> some of the things with curriculum. I have to do some copies in house. That's So that's I just wasn't sure, like, if there was something there. So okay. Yeah. Yeah. It is curriculum. Okay. Any
other questions on the financial report?
Steve?
Mister Klass?
Sorry to put you on the spot, Steve.
>> No. I'm I'm good. Good. Thanks. You're good? Oh, that's great.
>> Terry, thank you. Alright. Thank you. For watching our nipples and dimes and dollars and
cents.
Doing my process here. Thank you, Terry.
>> Items for discussion and action.
Item number one, board education policy, updated policy for a thousand series, January
and 1200.
Does anybody have any questions or anything they'd like to put forward for discussion?
>> Yes. Can yeah. Can we just can we go through them? Like,
>> if there's just a lot to Before you go through them, I just have one thing in front of you guys that I wanted to make
sure that you knew was there and it fell with the policy thing tonight.
This copy there, and I'll send it one to you, Steve, electronically.
This is the newest
and it kind of relates. This is the newest they call it an inventory.
It's the state mandates
pertaining to school districts. So those Connecticut general statutes that we talk about, the CGSs.
These
are what it is is these are all the ones that pertain just to us so that you wouldn't have to go through
all of them at a state level. These are from 2015
to 2023.
It's the old ones and the new ones in here. And when you put them in order like this by statute number, they also wind up in,
another sort of order, like any of the ones pertaining to school health that maybe we need to work with the nurse on and making sure that we are,
you know, in compliance with the mandates. Those are in one section.
And then anything that's budgetary related for board of ed, for finance, for those sorts of things, that's in another section.
So I thought it would be helpful for you to have the hard copy like this. Yeah. To to go through.
And then there are
some so what we were able to do is so, like, I sat down with Taylor, and I was like, okay. These are the ones that are curriculum related,
that, you know, as a principal, I'd like her to make sure we're in compliance with. And there was one or two where it was like, oh, that needs to go on the website by mandate. So it's up on the website.
I sat with Karen, the nurse, and said, okay. We need to make sure when you do your screenings, you do this. And so then we can just make sure that we are always in compliance with the old and the new ones that are in here. There's a couple of new ones in here that
I know they're thinking. But
>> yeah.
But we and remember, these are all unfunished. It's always a band aid. It says but I wanted to make sure going through there that, number one, we had the resources. We were in compliance,
and that nothing had been left out that we might have had to actually spend money to budget for. And so we're good. But when you go through here, you'll see I tried to highlight on the side some of the yellow ones
that are the the new ones. So so I'm going through to the policy section now. Everybody has their electronically
to Steve.
>> Thanks.
So, Val, like, looking because we've talked about 10 dash two twenty a lot on pages twenty four and twenty five. The sections of two twenty are in there in a row. Yep. Right. So
this is not revisions.
>> This is a mandate that applies right now This is on state law. Right. All of what what they didn't give us when they gave us this this year was they didn't say
which ones had passed during the '23. Right. They put the ones at the ends that are currently not codified.
So there's two at the end that just say public act Yep. Number. So they're not c
CGS's.
They're not Connecticut general statute yet. They're just public acts. Yep. But other than those last two there, they've passed.
And no, Shannon. It's not like there's a section that says, hey. FYI, these are the brand spanking new ones. No. Yeah. Like, it is in the Connecticut General Staffing. Have to look it up differently. Yeah. Yep. Okay. So
and like I said, I feel very confident,
you know, that's
with the exception of a couple of little tweaks, something that had to appear on a website that we've never realized had to appear on a website. We're we're good. Oh, and then there's a whole section on, like, the free and reduced lunch program.
Mhmm. But Coventry is our lunch program. So,
you know, we just talked to Beth Pratt over there and make sure we're in compliance. So okay.
>> So
a lot of the ones that we were looking at tonight are in section one
of the Connecticut general statutes, and there's nothing from
section one in here.
>> Well, so remember when we when we passed board policies
Yep. They may reference
They reference on the back Right. One of the Connecticut general statutes, but not all the policies are the same as the mandate.
They are
as a result of Of the mandate. So
this is the bigger one, and our policies are the smaller one, if that makes sense. Mhmm. And that's why when you look at the back, that's why I thought it was a good segue in. You'll see the legal references,
and very oftentimes, only one of the legal references is a Connecticut general statute. Right. Mhmm.
>> And one of them had case law, which was really interesting. Sometimes it's case law. Yes. Sometimes it's
>> something else. Okay. Okay?
Yeah. Public law like the IDEA.
Yep.
So And some of them don't have any any legal reference whatsoever. So Right. Yep. But I just figured for you to have these as handy as you're going through these to see which one they're referring to. Seems like it's great. And if you if you have them electronically, which I don't mind sending them to you electronically too,
some of the Connecticut General Statutes numbers on the side here have a little arrow, and then you can just click on it, and it goes right to the full context.
This is the shorter version. So I'll send it to you electronically. Okay? It is a much shorter version.
You're welcome.
Anybody want to go from these?
I I
>> I just it's a lot of information, so I feel like just saying, like, does anyone have a change? Like, we just need to, like, go page by page. That's all. Okay.
>> The first one is community relations.
At 1000.
Yeah. 1000. Yep. Yeah. That's the first one. And
I put that with 1110.1,
the next
one.
So those two kinda go together.
Right.
Yeah. I
>> don't I don't I didn't have any changes. I didn't have anything for the for the 1,000.
>> Okay. The only thing I've got, and I'm not gonna take any more time tonight, but it's, like, grammar and just making everything uniform. So if we're gonna go to the extent of doing all these, it would be, like, good to have everything
look the same. I don't know. Like, if you're gonna do legal references, do them all the same in any event, which I would be happy to work with Diane. I'm
Stay safe. Well do that too.
>> Yeah. The one thing that I I kinda thought we you know, when we go through these rather because it it's gonna be a pretty tedious process. We're trying to go through every single policy one by one at board meeting. The idea is individually, I think we are supposed to evaluate them, and then we can if we have changes,
send them in prior to the board and issue them as part of the packet for us to review,
and then we can discuss what those changes are at the meeting
rather than us sitting altogether and reading page by page. I think that's gonna make this a very long tedious process to go through all of these policies, and that's just with my thought is we would get them,
submit changes if we had any. If there were none, then we can just adopt what's there. But if we do wanna make changes, then, you know, we kinda do it offline and then discuss
as a board if we want those changes. That was just my thought.
>> One question I had when I was reading through them is 1,167.
One one six seven.
It's a
summary of negotiations activity.
Yep.
>> Board of Education believes it's in the best interest of the community to be kept informed about contractual relationship between the board and its employee groups.
Therefore, Board of Education shall prepare a summary report. I don't think this is anything we've ever done.
I don't remember doing this.
I don't know how you feel about having it in. Actually,
>> that is something that you have done because in our
policies,
when the contracts are done, the it's the law that we give a copy of the contract to the board of, select when board of finance. So a letter goes to them explaining that we've just completed the contract negotiations,
and this is what we've done with contract negotiations.
And it goes over with the signed copy that you guys signed and that the
>> president of the union ratifies. I don't remember. Yeah. But we didn't prepare
a summary report, which is what this thing says. Right. It's just We're supposed to do a summary report within two months, and you're right, Jerry. I don't recall us having done that. So that would be good and make it available to the public. Or take out. I think that we should leave it in as far as communications.
How's everyone else feel,
Chris? Sure.
>> I mean, it sounds like we already have it created. We would just probably The letter does go.
>> The letter does go. It's, like, the summary? It's usually like like, when Sally was here, the superintendent sent the letter and said, the board has ratified it. It's been signed. This is whatever. It just goes usually, the the letter on the front gets sent by the superintendent
when you guys ratify, approve, and sign the
>> Does does that serve as a summary? That's that yeah. Okay.
>> Yeah. Okay. Yeah. You guys don't actually write the summary. You guys approve the contract.
>> Okay. Right? So it's on something. Yeah. That's the sort of a been there, done that. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay.
That's the only thing I had marked.
Did you have any other changes? I feel like
>> I you wanted to go through it. I'm fine to go through order person. So when we do things out of order, it makes me not
in my brain. But so one one one two point one,
which was about access by news media to board meetings.
I don't feel like we need to necessarily change something in that, but it made me think about the fact that we now record every board meeting because of everything that's happened post COVID, and I feel like that needs to be reflected in these policies somehow. Yep. I'm not exactly sure how
or where it's appropriate to do so, but I think it needs to be added. What they do now, Caitlin, is I think they go and look at the recording.
They take their information off of the recording. Yep. I'm sure they do, but I think come here anymore. But I think stipulating that we are already recording like, that should be Recording written. You're recording meetings and making it available to I do.
>> Yeah. And we talked about last time because I I questioned whether or not we're gonna continue
to record and offer remote
access, and we decided that we would. That we would.
So until the we should probably add it to the policy. That. Yeah. Until it subsequently decided to adapt by June. Yep. Yes. So what happens, though, just to challenge that
>> because and I'm all for recording and sharing, but what happens when we have a technical difficulty and
something's not working? And are we then in violation of our own policy? No. I think we just write whenever possible,
meetings will be
conducted
in person as well as remotely and recorded.
>> I I completely agree, and I I just wanna make sure that language is in there. That is I don't like, for example, what we just talked about where we had a policy on
this summary that we were sending out that we don't know that we were sending out. I wanna make sure if we're approving these policies that we're complying with them.
So as long as we can put, like, when, you know,
when every attempt will be made or whatever just so that we don't tie ourselves into that we're going to do this, and then we have something, like, where we have that Zoom issue previously,
and then we're in violation of our policy because of the technical issues.
>> Steve, we can look up Cave's policy and wording on that one and see if it's most appropriate
to put with 11121
or if they have it in a in a separate one. Yeah. Yep. So I'll write a note to look up that one and find out what Cave has.
>> I think that's more communications with the public, maybe.
The prior one on 10.1
instead of news media relations.
So in any event.
I
did have
on one one one two
subparagraph b,
the second page number nine is the same sentence repeated three times. I saw that. So
if we're gonna approve the policies tonight important. It is. Parents who do not want their Clearly. Interviewed. Right. Yeah. That was So we need to take out two
>> duplicative sentences. Yes. And we need Real quick, though, Shannon, can we can if we're making changes right now, are we allowed to approve them then? Yes. We're having a discussion about the changes. So
I wanted to make any changes before we approve them, Steve, because once they're approved, they're approved. I got that. But I didn't know if once we made a change, if we had to wait until the next meeting to approve it. I thought there was No. We have to review it, then we talk
>> then we have to make a motion to approve it, and then we have discussion about the changes. And then we approve with the changes.
Sounds good.
I
>> just I had one. And, again, I don't know,
on community relations
one one one zero point one,
where it says these standards will be used as guidelines to develop meaningful programs at the school and district level. Do do we have to have in district level or just at the school level?
>> They probably just put it that way to be broad, like, if the district
>> were to change.
Right. Again, I I just does it have to say in district, or is it And it's the same thing. Like, that's what I was saying. Right. Half these times, they would prefer the building principal. For yeah. Like, in the same one community relations,
information about the district's program. Should it be school's program? Therefore, the district, it should say school
>> that those were We actually are a district. We're a district as well as a school. We're one and the same. Okay. Great. Yes. So we have The language in this, a lot of it uses district. Yep. Yeah. But we are she is a superintendent of the Andover School District, not just the Andover Elementary School. That's what's important. We should keep that word, just because it aligns so much with Well and I But I don't think we need building principal,
which is the other thing. That's why I'm saying grammatically, don't think we need to go through page by page, but if we're gonna approve it, I know what we do. Yeah.
>> Where it says school versus district is also to delineate
which administrator is making that decision. Mhmm. And so when they say the schools and the district, you are talking about two different representatives
Okay. Whether we're one school or not. When they say the LEA or, you know, that that's me. When they say the school, that's her. Okay.
So I would keep it in there because that very clearly
delineates
who it is that they're referring to
in terms of that. Okay.
>> So one one one four o anything in one one four o that refers to a, quote, unquote, building principle,
I suggest we take out the word building
and capitalize the word principle wherever.
Like, one one one four o, first paragraph, second paragraph.
Because we only have one principal.
Yeah. Which is likely not going to change. I don't believe so. But if it does, we'll have to change the policy.
I have
>> a question on that. You were on one one four zero a.
Why under guidelines
when it goes through these numbers, like, through six,
and then and then it says distribution
of one through four is prohibited
and then distribution of five and six only to a substantial number. Like, why is there a differentiation
between
those?
Is that some legal thing that I don't understand? I was trying to put that. Shouldn't they just all be
not?
Like, constitutes insulting or fighting words? Or
He's obscene. He's libelous. He's indecent.
Yeah.
>> Probably doesn't affect us, but those look like the codes in terms of whether something is Yeah. Available. Right. Yes.
>> Okay. So it's Adjust. Okay. Yeah. So there's a reason that there's a differentiation. Yep. Sure. Okay. Things that are expellable, so things that are suspendable.
>> Okay. So I'm looking at them as catching up with codes. That's that's why. Reports. Okay. Okay. K.
>> And then this is going back, but on one one two zero a,
under community relations for citizen participation at board meetings,
it states after number five, it says questions asked by citizens will be answered in the meeting at which they are asked.
Only if
like, I guess I just the way that that reads right now to me makes it seem like we should be answering all the questions that people are asking during public speak, and I don't know We don't do that. If that's fairly accurate or if we need to rewrite that section. No. But it says it they're gonna be answered only if the question doesn't require research, and then there are other ways that it can be handled.
>> So maybe we take out
part of that sentence, and then, you know, we'll be addressed in one of the following ways. Because we're not supposed to answer them That's I I bring it up. No. That's the way it's written. So instead of it, we just say it'll be addressed in one of the following ways. I I think that that would make sense.
So maybe we just put in will not be answered in the meeting.
>> But addressed in one of one of the following ways. Right.
>> That always just frustrated me, however, because if we can answer them, I think it would be best to answer them. But That's a simple question. Yeah. Well
>> Oh, and then
the distribution of materials by students and, like, the use of tables and all of that, that's all just taken from code somewhere?
Yes.
>> Okay. It just seems like a lot of talk about kids sitting and setting up tables. I can't think about,
like, excessive amount. No. The
>> only thing I'll say is
that in my experience, almost everything in a code or a law has been because
lawsuit lawsuit has occurred for it. Yeah. That caused that to need to be delineated
in a statute. Yep.
>> I just had a question on community relations
one one five zero, and then it's one one six zero. Responsibilities
of the board. It's the responsibility of each board member to exercise care when answering questions about the public schools.
Did it should it say school? Yeah. Okay. Which
one was that? You're 1150
>> and 1160.
Yep. It's nice. It should just it should just say best school.
>> That's really all I Then you guys already talked about it, but one one six seven where it says said summary report shall be presented to the Selectmen and Board of Finance.
Is it actually presented? Like, is that the appropriate word or word, like, delivering
like, do you go in person and present this report?
Nope.
How do we say provided? So should we say provided or submitted or Provided. Provided? It shall be provided. Provided. Yep. Submitted. Yeah. Good point.
Bring it in on that folded pillow.
>> 1250Dot1A.
It says
like, halfway down the page, it says each principal. Yep. I understand. Okay.
And then also superintendent of schools. Yep.
>> What is the ID? What is status?
It's bills. Okay. I mean, those are.
>> And then I just had one, the community relations, the 1251,
the loitering or causing a disturbance. Do
we know if loitering is still a class c misdemeanor,
What is that?
I just know a lot of Where are you at? I'm on 1251.
I gotcha. I'll look it up. Is that the end? Yeah. I just I mean, is is loitering
still
a class c misdemeanor, or did that get
reduced? Or I'll look it up. Alright. So I know I know a lot a lot of stuff has chain a lot of laws have changed.
>> You know, one thing that you have to be aware of is when the kids are out on recess,
do you know, you have recess.
And if a parent or some stranger pulls up, sees the kids playing and tries to get their attention there,
I know that's something that you really gotta you gotta go and approach them fast and right away. Right. Right. And find out who they are and what they're up to. Right. But why are you here? Why are you here? Yes. Well, especially where, like, our grounds, there's not like a There's no buffer. There's there's no fence there. No. Right. Yeah. So
>> Yeah. I just didn't know if that's still a class c. Yep. It is. It is. Alright then.
That's all I know.
Excellent.
Does anyone else have any
changes,
observations?
>> No. Just we have to figure out the Zoom recording thing and, like, the language where put the languages for that. So I make a motion that we approve the policies with the changes discussed this evening.
>> And otherwise, as presented
wanna approve now or do have to wait until we make the changes this evening? I would love to wait another month, but whatever we wanna do. Love the text. Okay. Great. Does everybody I make a motion to postpone it. We are considering until next month. Does
>> anybody have any I would I
I would agree. The one question I would ask is, Shannon, I mean, I don't wanna put on necessarily your plate, but if you can maybe draft those changes into Yep.
Look at it and then approve the completed.
>> Yep. As the policy person, that is my responsibility, so I will be happy to do that.
Thank you much. Sure.
>> Thank you, Shannon. Absolutely.
So we'll wait until they're
they're fixed and changed and edited. We're in the hardest, and then we'll vote on it next time. Great. Is everybody gonna pay with that? Mhmm.
Okay.
Next.
Budget transfers.
>> Yes. I just have a few. I didn't know if I could go over them one by one, but I just was looking for the court approval on these
change on these transfers.
You probably noticed
when we were looking at the numbers that there are still some negatives. Somebody had pointed out printing and Mhmm. Binding. Mhmm. So,
obviously, there's some things that I can't move around within object
code.
If it's from one object code to another, then I have to ask permission of the board.
K. So the first one is moving
some monies from financial services to other professional services fiscal,
which are two separate object codes, and that was basically because we had
my position was
the person left and the person filling in Mhmm. We paid them out of that.
>> And then Do you have the object codes on that by any chance? Or did them. Great.
And the amount.
>> Yeah. And the amounts. Yep. We have to do both.
>> Oh, the amounts are is okay. Let me just tell you. Sorry.
Nope. So I don't really
should be pretty easy.
Service that you said.
Oh, service.
>> I should've put that on my little Sorry. I just think we have to do it from like, we have to know where we're moving it within. Right. I just have the
pardon? 1112510.
It's too far down.
Okay.
>> Removing it from
financial services. 1112510.
1112510.
Yep. Which is the account that I'm
$93,
I guess, you could say. Okay. And then it's going to be moved to
the overage
other professional services fiscal,
which is
0023402510.
I'm sorry. Can you repeat that? 000023402510.
>> And what's the amount, Carrie?
The amount
is $43.26.
$4,003.26.
>> So I make a motion that oh, do we wanna deal with them all at once with all the transfers at once? Can we do that? Yeah. Yeah. We can. Let's do it. Okay. The
>> other one is going to be a move from certified
admin staff,
which is 0021112410
to
also other professional services fiscal.
3402510.
>> 3402510.
And that amount is $8,216.85.
Sorry. The previous
budget transfers didn't have the accounts on them, believe it or not. I looked at it open.
Okay. And then the overage with the printing and the binding,
which is object
code 550.
Okay. The the overage of $3,007.11,
we're gonna move
from the from various textbook accounts
to cover that
>> overage.
So I can give you just the
expo So is is this just to deal with the $15.00 7
No. Balance of which? The deal with the 3,000.
>> It's $7.11
overage.
So various textbook.
Well and that's gonna cover printing
and binding for the rest of
>> this fiscal year? Or It's gonna cover the overage at this time.
>> Am I looking at it wrong? Because it it looks like the overage right now is, like, 15 a little over 15. What I was gonna say. You can add a That's that's the object.
>> The whole object. The whole object is only 15. I understand. You're looking at the light item with that. Okay. I can't take it from that other part because we're gonna need Okay. Money, so I have to get it from somewhere else. So Okay. So we're dealing with 3,007
and 11¢.
Correct. $3,007.11.
>> Like I said, it's gonna be covered by various textbooks.
Okay? Okay.
So I make a motion that we
>> I guess my allow Terry to proceed with the budget transfers. My only question on that, on the 3,000 thing, like, that amount,
does that make it
so that you are okay for the rest of the fiscal year, or we're have to transfer more into that again later? Probably be more budget transfers as we go along.
Okay. But it makes sense do it, like, bit by bit. Yes?
>> I I can't I wasn't projecting ahead at this moment. Okay. But, yes, it will probably go over again before the end of the day.
>> So there's a motion pending. Is there a second? Second. Second. Great.
>> And all in favor, say aye. Aye.
Aye.
Any opposed?
Any abstentions? 3,007.
Hey, Gretchen. I believe it's $7.00 0.
Thank you for the
>> I'll transfer to the budget.
Next,
we have liaison report. Are they in?
K. Hearing none. Comments from the public on agenda items.
Jenny Morell?
All set. Thank you.
>> Joanne Ebert.
I am all set, Jerry. Thank you. Hey. Thanks, Joanne. Anybody from in here? Okay.
Hearing none,
we're gonna move on to our executive session.
>> I make a motion that we enter into executive session for the purpose of discussing legal advice, opinion under attorney client privilege.
Okay.
And
we're inviting
>> Oh, and we are inviting
Carrie Smith and superintendent Bruno to join us.
You wanna be invited? I didn't think so.
>> K. Do we need a second?
Second.
Thank you, Chris.
Okay. And the vote of all, says we're going to executive session. Say aye.
Aye. Aye.
Opposed?
Aye.
Okay.
Awesome.
Yep. Hold
>> on. Wait a minute. I gotta resume the recording. Yep. We're we're recording. Excellent. Thank it.
Eight one seconds.
>> Upcoming meetings, regular board meeting ends 04/19/2023.
And please make sure you submit any items you want to discuss with the next meeting.
Is there a motion to adjourn?
>> Motion to adjourn. I'll make the motion. Oh, she makes the motion. I'll second. To us. Second. That's always Celeste. I can second. I'll second. Second date. You have a mind. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Aye. Any opposed? I oppose.
No way. I do not. I'll take it back. Okay.
Need some dissension. Good night. I'll reach you back.
>> So Good night, Steve. Nice, Steve. And then you you could end the meeting. It's still recording? Yeah.